## “Interest Rate Swaps” in DeFi?

In the following article we will delve into Interest Rate Swaps (IRS, not the best abbreviation lol). Generally speaking IRS is huge in TradFi, the size of interest rate derivatives market is over $1 quadrillion. Interest Rate Swaps are in finance in order to create a new money market, where users can swaps their derivatives to match their risk preference. Given the fact that each user has a unique risk preference, the IRS market allows for that preference to be swapped for another derivative which has a better match for the users risk preference. It could be that the user is risk averse, thus wants Fixed rates, or instead the user is speculative and risk taking which may push them towards Variable rates.

Let’s look at the DeFi ecosystem and on why we need Interest Rate Swaps. Over the years crypto space has grown exponentially, which was as a result of revolutionary protocols made by great minds. The protocols such as Maker, Compound, AAVE, Uniswap, Curve ( and many more) allowed DeFi to provide the TradFi services in a decentralised and efficient manner. They all provided more instruments for users to utilise in the ecosystem for sound and open finance. However, as the space is growing we see that not everyone is a degen anymore, the rise of protocols such as Anchor who have 20% stable interest represents the rise of risk-averse users. There is also lack of new innovative instruments in DeFi, since the listed above protocols are already in full use, thus there is a need for a new innovative instrument.

The introduction of IRS instrument into DeFi would boost the ecosystem, because the many interest bearing tokens would have more use cases. IRS would essentially allow greater flexibility for all users of interest bearing tokens, because then users can speculate on the interest they receive. Thus I expect an increase in usage of interest bearing protocols, once an IRS protocol is established.

Currently in DeFi there are very few IRS protocols, the ones I found are: Voltz (voltz.xyz), Tempus, Swivel, Element Fi, Strips and Pendle. Almost all of them are very new and have potential, the infancy of IRS protocols in DeFi means there is no one ‘correct’ way to build an IRS protocol. Therefore, we will delve into each one and depict their differences.
